Now you've written a code to break
the vigenere if you know the key length.
But what do you do if you
don't know the key length?
Well, you could just try
some different key lengths.
You could use the code you just wrote and
pass it a key length,
then see what the result is.
Maybe the key length is one.
That output is incomprehensible.
One is probably not
the correct key length.
What if you tried two?
That doesn't seem to be right either.
How about three?
Oh, hey.
This output looks like
it could be English.
It has readable words.
It would seem this message was
encrypted with a key length of three.
You could write a loop to try
many different keylengths.
Start at one and count up from there.
The computer can try one particular
key length in a fraction of a second.
So, even if a message which is thousands
of lines long is encrypted with
a keylength of 92,
the program can do it in no time but
how do you tell if
the key length is right?
Do you really want to look at
the output for each iteration to say?
That's what we did a moment ago.
Looked at the output to see
if it was meaningful text.
But maybe if we think carefully
about what we just did,
we can find a way to automate it.
As you look at the incorrect
decryption here,
think about how you knew it was not right.
This group of three letters forms
a word but J-O-W is not a real word.
Likewise y-t isn't a real word nor
is Y-O-B.
None of the words in this message
are actual English words.
Contrast that with the correct decryption.
H-O-W is the word how.
D-O is do and Y-O-U is you.
All of the words in the correct
decryption are actual words.
This observation leads to the idea of how
to figure out which key length is right.
Count the number of real
words in the output.
You would start by reading a list
of English words from a file.
You could store the list of
words in an array list but
we're going to recommend
you use a hash set,
which will give you the same
functionality but work much faster.
Then, you try the decryption for
various key lengths.
Start at one and count up.
Where do you end?
Well you could just count
up to the message length.
Although if the key is close to the length
of the message, you won't be able to break
it because there won't be enough letters
to meaningfully frequency count.
For this mini project,
just count up to 100 then for
each key length you try,
see how many of the words
in the decrypted text are actual
words from the file you read in.
Once you have done that,
choose the key length, key, and
decrypted text which give
you the most real words.
As we just mentioned,
using an ArrayList would work just fine.
As you read in the file,
you would use the .add() method
to put each word in the list.
When you want to see if a potential word
is actually a real word from the list,
you would use the .contains() method.
A better option is to
use the HashSet class.
Like ArrayList and
HashMap you can use a HashSet
containing different types of data.
So, you need to put String in
angle brackets after HashSet.
You want a HashSet of strings.
For this problem you will use
the HashSet in much the same way
as you would an ArrayList.
You can call .add and .contains on it.
You cannot index into a HashSet
like you can an ArrayList but
if you wanted to iterate over one,
you could do that with a for each loop.
That is what has been happening
behind the scenes when you
iterate over a hash maps.key set.
The main advantage is that dot
contains will be much faster.
Instead of searching through every
word in the hash set, it can look
at only a few words to figure out if it
contains the requested information or not.
The last thing that we will mention
before you start coding is how to split
a string up into individual words.
You've already seen that
String has a .split() method.
You can use that passing
in quote \\W quote.
This asks the split method to divide
the string up at every character that is
not part of a word meaning spaces,
punctuation or numbers.
Once you have done that you can iterate
over those words with a for each loop,
like this one.